Hello and then this lecture your going to be learning all about layers and alfer so you'll be able to
like this simple drawing of a house here.
You'll be able to switch things in and out and change the house to your heart's desire based upon some
other layers that you've made.
Welcome to an introduction to layers and how far.
Now before we get to the Alpha let's focus on layers and how they enable a non-destructive work flow.
First of all we need to explain what a non-destructive workflow is and for that we sure use an example.
Let's go ahead and I am just going to create a new file and I'm going to set it to 32 by 32 because
that's what we are going to be working with this particular section Ungerman zoomlion with control shift
in J.
And I'm going to o.
I've got a brush selected that's not the pencil.
Never mind.
I can still demonstrate this point.
I'm going to switch to the pencil now.
Now if I want to edit how that looks at the moment I'm going to have to basically destroy what's there
overwrite.
So if I wanted to let's put that back down to size one if I wanted to put these spots on I've actually
changed that image.
However what I can do is create a new layer.
And on that layer put the six white dots.
But that background image remains exactly the same.
It remains intact.
So if I change my mind later it's no problem at all to just remove those spots again.
And now in order to do that we're going to have to create our first layer.
Now as you can imagine with a program like guimpe there are several ways to create a new layer.
Will do the menu option first.
So along the top on your file menu there is one called layer and on that there's the option for new
layer new from visible new leg group et cetera et cetera.
We're just going to focus on the new layer option.
Now if you've got a layers tab open you can also use that so we can see on the right hand side here
I do have a layer's tab open.
It's one that looks like a stack of papers.
Now if we glanced down we can see that there is an icon at the bottom.
This would be a list of layers.
This empty white space here if we had more than one and there is a little piece of paper with the corner
folded over and that button will also create a new layer or of course if you're a keyboard shortcut
warrior we can use the keyboard shortcut control shift and end.
Now for the moment I feel like clicking on this icon they will all do the same thing they will create
a new layer and we can call this net layer something I can call it white spots because that is essentially
what Im going to do.
Now we have an option here of making the layer bigger or smaller than the canvas that we're working
on for the moment.
Im gonna leave it is 32 by 32.
And here we have our first taste of Alpha with the laser filled type.
We have the foreground colour which will fill it in white.
We have the background colour which will fill it in black in this case.
We have just a white in this which would be the same as the foreground colour.
And then finally we have transparency and this will be your first taste of Alpha.
If we go ahead and click okay with transparency selected what it has done is laid a clear layer on top
of this black Splodge.
Now if I go to my background and colour in those black dots again now you can see this is a great example
of destructive workflow is going on.
Those are still standing out.
Thats fine I know where to put them at least when I go back to or are white spots layer.
So it is important to realize that whatever layer youre on is where the tool is going to affect.
So I've clicked back onto the background layer before I've coloured those in.
Then I'm going to go to the white spots layer.
It will highlight blue as you can see here and I'm going to change my foreground colour back to white
and I'm going to colour in those spots again.
So one two three four five six.
So we've not completely destroyed that we've kind of repaired it a little but any time you can click
this little to turn a layer on and off again and that can be incredibly useful as you can probably imagine
if you're building something up.
So if this here was a highlight I'm going to make sure am on the white spots layer and I'm just going
to colour it in along the top there and perhaps a little bit here if those two were highlights and I
didn't like those highlights.
I have not destroyed the underneath object that I'm working on.
And of course we're not limited to two layers.
In this case we've got our white spots and the background and the white spots is currently invisible
there's no icon in there.
However we can re order those.
So if I click and drag white spots we can see a black line appears underneath back.
Round and now white spots is beneath that background.
So it cannot be seen unless we turn the background off.
And that's because the background has no Alpher we cannot see through it.
So you can equate Alpha to transparency or we could also see those highlights.
If we decrease the capacity of a particular layer.
So with the background selected above it is a bar that's movable that ranges from zero to 100.
That's the opacity bar.
And if we lower that down we start to see that we can see the white taillights underneath.
Now this is no good.
In this particular example because it doesn't really change the highlights and the background image
itself just fades out to nothingness.
And if you can see there is a chequered pattern that is the standard for there being nothing there.
So those white spots the only information is these white lines on the screen on the layer itself.
Right.
Bring the background layer back down by clicking and dragging.
There is another way of course of reordering layers if you glance down at the bottom.
You can raise and lower the layer with an up and down our own.
If you want to and you can also access a similar thing under the layer menu under stack and we can raise
the layer we can raise the layer all the way to the top.
So if something has drifted down and you need it on top of everything else there is a shortcut to do
it there as well.
Now we still cant see our background layer at the moment so Im going to raise the A pastie back up of
that layer so we can see it.
But perhaps these white spots are a bit too intense but I dont want to edit them and make them some
grey.
I want to leave them as white.
I can select the white spots and lower its capacity and it will make those white lines slightly transparence.
Thats lower than down a little more and that will also have the effect of making them look not as bright
as they were before.
So finally just to reiterate.
When it comes to importance of the labour order if youve got several layers Im just going to create
a couple more layers.
Now you can see with transparency selected it doesnt change our image weve essentially got another couple
of transparent layers that we can draw on and the only thing we'll see from that layer is what ever
we've drawn.
Now if we selected a new layer and happened to have the foreground background colour all white on it
and it was at the very top it just goes completely white because white is at the very top so everything
underneath it can not be seen.
There's no transparency on this layer.
There's no party or there is a pasties or it's 100 percent it's completely opaque.
You can not see through that layer.
You can of course adjust that and bring it down but the layer order does matter.
It is what determines which lay it takes precedence over all the other layers.
Now if we drag white spots fall further down so that it's beneath the background it will no longer be
making the background whiter or lighter.
In this case and if you want to delete a layer which is inevitable there is a little bin icon on the
far right at the bottom of the layers or you can go to the layer menu and delete the liar.
Now if you go ahead with the layer selected and hit something like the delete key.
Then you will end up clearing that layer removing all colour from it and leaving it completely transparent
which is not the same as actually deleting the letter.
And then finally if we go ahead and click delete layer you can see it just disappears.
If we do white spots and click it it just disappears.
So a warning there that when you hit that delete key it's done which is unusual of course because I
would expect there to be a.
Are you sure you want to delete this layer.
There isn't.
So if you've inadvertently deleted the wrong layer you will have to undo to get that back.
And that can be done a file undo remove layer.
There we go we've got that back again.
I remove the wrong white spots.
Of course there's also the undo history as well.
So we can see everything that we've done.
Now if you don't have that enabled it is great to have it there.
It's also available under Edit undo history as well.
And we can see all the things that I've recently done.
All the way from the very base image so we could go all the way back to that if we have a look at the
layers is all the way back at the beginning.
Of course I don't want to do anything at the moment if I did.
It would reset the history and it's gone.
And if you undo you can only go back to that base image again.
I can't go back to my previous state and Whoops I did not save my work so I can't go back at all.
So that is a brief overview of layers.
And in order to solidify that knowledge I've now got a small challenge for you and your challenge is
to start with a 32 by 30 to canvas create a base shape.
In this case I am going to go ahead and create a house.
I suggest you follow along to the first time and then hap's revisit the challenge again with your own
idea.
Give it three different configurations that you can switch between using the layers.
Hide the layers you do not want to appear in the export that were going to do.
And then finally export your three variations at 64 by 64 and share it with us.
Pause video now and give that a go.
Okay guys welcome back.
Let's go ahead and create a base shape.
In this case I'm going to do a house and give it three different configurations.
Okay so I have a nice blank image considering I just undid everything and I'm going to first of all
just save my file.
I am going to call it's just on the other windover and I'm going to call this.
House or layered house.
I'm going to call it something so I know what it's about so late word house recap.
It's that's all saved and I'm going to want maybe more than three letters.
I'm going to leave the background as it is for the moment.
I'm going to go ahead and create a new layer and I'm going to call it house.
And I'm going to literally just draw a nice iconic house.
Where we've got let's see goes up.
Now of course I'm not basing this upon reality I'm doing a representation of a house who made a mistake
there.
Hey let's go ahead and give it a roof.
I'm going to do the iconic roof.
That's like this.
One two three four five six and then close it off.
So that's my base shape of a house.
It actually kind of looks like a box with prospective but there we go.
It's going to become clear once we add a new layer.
And I'm going to call this one variation or one.
Whoops.
I created a layer that was well wasn't transparent so it's gone all white.
Now I've got a couple of options here I could delete the line or I could just clear the lay down and
I'm going to do that because that's the quickest thing for me to do and that was by hitting the delete
key not the backspace key the delete key and just a reminder for those on a Mac and perhaps some other
computers as well you can hold down the function button as well as the backspace key and that often
does the delete for you.
Okay so we've got this box shaped thing let's go ahead and give it a door so I'm going to have a door
in the middle of my house and I'm going to go ahead and just continue my variations on a theme here
and I will see you guys back in a few moments.
Okay guys welcome back.
Let's have a look at the variations that I have made.
Now one of them's a cheeky little variation.
It's simply a chimney on the side.
But I've got two main faces to my house.
I've got one with the garridge and one without a garridge and a large room instead.
So there we go.
I've got mine all ready to go.
And of course I need to export them now but before I export them.
Just a quick one and we'll get to solving this particular issue in a later lecture.
But if we have a look if we created ourselves a new layer.
In this case and said it to the background.
When it was my foreground colour my foreground covers currently blacks am going to set it as black obviously
everything goes black.
I'm going to drag that down so it's below everything else.
I'm going to keep the house turned off but I'm going to add on my variation one you can see some white.
Okay so where I have corrected because the backgrounds white I've just used white almost like Tippex
or correction fluid.
However that has left evidence that it was there and rather it been nothing and the same thing with
the chimney Yes but this one absolutely fine didn't make any mistakes that I need correct that way.
So let's turn back on the House and I've got the windows there.
Okay so now with those two layers turned on.
I just need to export my work now I haven't got blimp installed on this computer so I'm going to have
to go around in either install it.
I'm not going to do that in front of you now or of course you can do the long hand version which is
making sure you've saved your work before you do anything and then scale it up so we can go to image
scale image.
Make it 64 by 64.
And make sure that the interpolation is turned toward none.
And just a reminder that big amp is the automatic exporting of our images for us where we can do the
resizing or tomas's through the batch exporting so we can do multiple actions to an individual image.
Now in this particular case thinking about so because we're just going to swap out our layers using
blimp would probably be quite owner a swearers doing it the manual way will probably end up a bit quicker
than trying to use something like bebop because we've not got multiple images.
We just got multiple errors that will be switching in and out.
No scale that scaled everything up and then I can export as and layered house and then call this layered
house.
Yeah just lay house.
I think in this case and we need to make sure we've got pins selected it's remembered that from the
last time I was exporting so I'm going to go ahead and export that's in the appropriate location and
export what other variations do have shift control.
J just to make sure I can see everything.
Let's pop the chimney on.
So again I'm going to export as an out we've got layered house with chimney s.h..
There we go.
Export.
And finally we've got this one and I'm going to leave the chimney on as well and I'm going to export
as led House for chimney and a garridge exports.
Now of course Usually you won't be exporting things quite as rapidly as this often spending a bit more
time on detail.
And I suggest you now revisit the challenge again if you're comfortable with layers and doing this again.
But perhaps with a bit more colour in there perhaps were a bit of shading entirely up to you.
Do practice what you've just learned that is important to solidify it now I'm going to make sure at
this point in time I do not save my work.
Otherwise it will upscaled 64 by 64 and I do not want that I want it left at 32.
I'm going to go to file and just close the view which is the current one I've got to open.
Of course I can click the little cross on the tab as well.
It's going to.
After all I want to save the changes.
No the only changes I've done is a scale and I do not want that saved.
Perfect.
How did you guys get on.
Please show your work in the discussions and I will see you guys in the next lecture.